Add a document for how to view Alluxio metrics on UI [skip ci] (#7172)
NVIDIA/spark-rapids: docs/get-started/getting-started-alluxio.md

The Alluxio Web UI is not available by default on Databricks,   
the following provides a method to view the Web UI by SSH tunnel via jump server.   
First forward the Alluxio port 19999 to a new port on a jump server,   
then forward the new port on the jump server to a local port,   
finally access the local port in the browser.   
For example:   
- Forward the Alluxio server 19999 port to the port 29999 on jump server.    
  ssh user@jump-server   // login to jump server   
  ssh -L 29999:localhost:19999 alluxio_master_user@alluxio_master_host -p 2200 -i <private_key_file_path>   
- Forward the port 29999 on jump server to local port 39999 on your own machine.    
  ssh -L 39999:localhost:29999 user@jump-server   
- Finally open http://localhost:39999/metrics on your own machine.   

### Monitor Alluxio live metrics based on Grafana with Prometheus

#### Save Alluxio historic Prometheus format metrics
When creating a Databricks cluster via the Docker container for Databricks,   
Set PROMETHEUS_COPY_DATA_PATH, for example:   

> `PROMETHEUS_COPY_DATA_PATH=/dbfs/path/to/directory`   

Author: Added doc link: For more details, refer to [spark-rapids-Databricks-container](https://github.com/NVIDIA/spark-rapids-container/tree/dev/Databricks)

#### Restore historic metrics into Prometheus
Copy the saved data in `PROMETHEUS_COPY_DATA_PATH` into Prometheus data path.   
```
cd <prometheus-root-dir>
mkdir data   
# Copy the saved files into `data` directory.
cp -r $PROMETHEUS_COPY_DATA_PATH/some/sub/path/* /path/to/prometheus-root-dir/data
`ls /path/to/prometheus-root-dir/data` will show files like:   
`chunks_head  lock  queries.active  wal`
```

#### Start Prometheus
cd <prometheus-root-path>   
./prometheus   

#### View Alluxio historic metrics based on Grafana
Refer to [Config local Grafana to monitor the live metrics](#Config local Grafana to monitor the live metrics)   
The difference is:   
The prometheus datasource is local(http://localhost:9090) instead of the remote prometheus on Databricks cluster.   

![img](../img/Databricks/grafana.png)

#### View a specific historic Alluxio metrics in Prometheus Web UI
Refer to [the section](#View a specific live Alluxio metrics in Prometheus Web UI)   
The difference is:   
The prometheus datasource is local instead of the remote prometheus on Databricks cluster.   
Open Prometheus Web UI: http://localhost:9090/graph.   

### Useful metrics for performance monitoring

> TODO: will add useful metrics   

Reviewer: perhaps just remove this section for now and we can have follow PR

Author: Removed this section

### Auto start Alluxio the master and workers
After installing Alluxio master and workers, it's better to add a systemd service for each process of master and workers.

> Systemd service can automatically start process if process is terminated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Systemd service can automatically restart a process if that process is terminated.
```

Author: Done.

## Alluxio metrics
### Monitor Alluxio metrics based on Alluxio Master Web
Users can view the Alluxio metrics in the Web interface of Alluxio leading master:       
http://<leading_master_host>:19999/metrics   
For more details, please refer to section 3.1 of Alluxio doc: [Master Web UI Metrics](https://docs.alluxio.io/os/user/stable/en/operation/Metrics-System.html#default-http-json-sink)      

> The Alluxio Web UI is not available by default on databricks, the following provides a method to view the Web UI by SSH tunnel via jump server.   

Reviewer: Databricks should be capitalized

Author: Done

> First forward the Alluxio port 19999 to a new port on a jump server, then forward the new port on the jump server to a local port, finally access the local port in the browser.   

Author: Done

For example:   

> - Forward the port 29999 on jump server to local port 39999 on your own machine.   

Reviewer: can't you just forward directly to the machine you are on vs jump server as long as it has ssh access?

Author: Ideally, executing the following one command on the machine you are on is OK:

```
ssh -L  <local_port>:Alluxio-master-IP:19999 user@jump-server
```
The above command means forward port 19999 on Alluxio-master to <local_port> via jump-server

But, the ssh port on Alluxio-master is 2200 instead of the default value.
I do not know how to specify the `private_key_file_path` and `-p 2200` in one command.

So, we use the workaround:
1. Forward 19999 to jump-server: 29999
2. Forward jump-server: 29999 to local-pc:39999

Reviewer: so what is the definition of a jump server here?   Where does user get a jump server?   Is this a databricks specific thing?

ssh -L 39999:localhost:29999 user@jump-server   

> - Forward the alluxio server 1999 port to the port 29999 on jump server.   

Reviewer: Alluxio should be capitalized.
I assume this is 19999 port?

Author: The forward paths are:

Alluxio-master: 19999 -> jump-server:29999 -> local-pc:39999

ssh -L 39999:localhost:29999 user@jump-server
The above command means forward port 29999 on jump-server to the local 39999 port.

Author: Done

ssh user@jump-server   
ssh -L 29999:localhost:19999 alluxio_master_user@alluxio_master_host -p 2200 -i <private_key_file_path>   
- Finally open http://localhost:39999/metrics on your own machine.   

> ### Monitor Alluxio metrics based on Grafana and Prometheus

Reviewer: we need to have sections on how to do this via the docker image we provide. We probably need to re do the document a bit to split it into setting up manually vs via the docker image

Author: Done.
Currently, install Grafana locally.
Grafana can connect to local Prometheus for viewing historical metrics.
Grafana can connect to remote Prometheus(via tunnel) for viewing live metrics

Author: The docker only install Prometheus, not install Grafana.

Refer to section 3.2 of Alluxio doc: [Grafana Web UI with Prometheus](https://docs.alluxio.io/os/user/stable/en/operation/Metrics-System.html#default-http-json-sink)   

> Also the Web UI can be forward to local machine if the Alluxio Web UI is not available on databricks,   

Reviewer: Databricks should be capitalized.  I'm not sure what this sentence means or really what this section is trying to tell the user.  Are you saying you can see grafana and prometheus UI on the Databricks cluster via web UI?

Author: Yes.
But it seems useless because we should install and configure Grafana and Prometheus in the docker image.

Currently, the MR I made for the docker image only installs and configures Prometheus to collect the historical metrics, and does not install and configure Grafana.

So let's remove this section.

Author: Done.

refer to the tunnel method in the previous section.   

> ### View Alluxio historic metrics based on Grafana and Prometheus

Reviewer: change to Grafana with Prometheus.  How is this section different from previous section?

Author: This is to view historic metrics. The previous section is to view live metrics on the Alluxio on Databricks.

After the Databricks cluster is shutdown, the Web UI can not be accessed again, this section describes how to view historic metrics.   
The main flows are:   

> - Install Prometheus   

Reviewer: add link to prometheus installation doc

Author: The following section added the link.
Here is to give an outline of the following sections.

- Configure Alluxio to expose a servlet to serve the Prometheus-typed metrics   
- Configure Prometheus to pull Prometheus-typed metrics periodically from Alluxio   
- Save the Prometheus-typed metrics out of Databricks cluster   
- Install Prometheus and Grafana locally   
- Restore the saved Prometheus data into local Prometheus   
- Start the local Prometheus and Grafana to view the historic metrics   

> #### Save Alluxio historic Prometheus-format metrics data out of Databricks

Reviewer: add newline between sections

Author: Done.

5. Modify the variables in the dashboard/settings with instructions here and save your dashboard.
- alluxio_datasource: Your prometheus datasource name used in step 1.
- masters: alluxio master. It's the Master ‘job_name’ configured in prometheus.yml on Databricks cluster.
- workers: Currently, it's no use, the Databricks does not collect worker metrics.
- alluxio_user: ubuntu. The user used to start up Alluxio.
![img](../img/Databricks/grafana.png)
For more details, refer to section 3.2 of Alluxio doc: [Grafana Web UI with Prometheus](https://docs.alluxio.io/os/user/stable/en/operation/Metrics-System.html#default-http-json-sink)
#### View a specific historic Alluxio metrics in Prometheus Web UI
The graph in the previous may not show all the metrics users care about, the following describes how to view a specific historic Alluxio metric as you want:   
Open Prometheus Web UI: http://localhost:9090/graph   
Click the `Open metrics explorer` button.   
![img](../img/Databricks/list-metrics.png)
Then a list is shown:   
![img](../img/Databricks/list-metrics-result.png)
Select a metric and then click Graph Tab, then a graph is shown:
![img](../img/Databricks/a-metric-graph.png)

> ### useful metrics for performance monitoring

Reviewer 2: Capitalize `Useful`

Author: Done

### Monitor Alluxio live metrics based on Grafana with Prometheus

#### Config Prometheus when creating Databricks cluster
When creating a Databricks cluster via the Docker container for Databricks,   
Set Environment variable ENABLE_ALLUXIO and PROMETHEUS_COPY_DATA_PATH, for example:   
```
ENABLE_ALLUXIO=1

> PROMETHEUS_COPY_DATA_PATH=/dbfs/chongg/dblogs-prometheus

Author: Done.
